Queries
1. What query would you run to get all the countries that speak Slovene? Your query should return the name of the country, language and language percentage. Your query should arrange the result by language percentage in descending order. (1)

2. What query would you run to display the total number of cities for each country? Your query should return the name of the country and the total number of cities. Your query should arrange the result by the number of cities in descending order. (3)

3. What query would you run to get all the cities in Mexico with a population of greater than 500,000? Your query should arrange the result by population in descending order. (1)

4. What query would you run to get all languages in each country with a percentage greater than 89%? Your query should arrange the result by percentage in descending order. (1)

5. What query would you run to get all the countries with Surface Area below 501 and Population greater than 100,000? (2)

6. What query would you run to get countries with only Constitutional Monarchy with a capital greater than 200 and a life expectancy greater than 75 years? (1)

7. What query would you run to get all the cities of Argentina inside the Buenos Aires district and have the population greater than 500, 000? The query should return the Country Name, City Name, District and Population. (2)

8. What query would you run to summarize the number of countries in each region? The query should display the name of the region and the number of countries. Also, the query should arrange the result by the number of countries in descending order. (2)



Queries - solutions

1.
SELECT countries.name, languages.language, languages.percentage 
FROM countries
JOIN languages ON countries.code=languages.country_code
WHERE languages.language = 'Slovene'
order by languages.percentage DESC;

2.
SELECT countries.name AS country, COUNT(cities.id) AS total_cities
FROM countries
LEFT JOIN cities on countries.id = cities.country_id
GROUP BY countries.code
ORDER BY total_cities DESC;

3.
SELECT cities.name, cities.population, countries.name FROM cities
LEFT JOIN countries on cities.country_code = countries.code 
WHERE countries.name = 'Mexico' AND 
cities.population > 500000
ORDER BY cities.population DESC;

4.
SELECT languages.language, languages.percentage, countries.name
FROM languages
JOIN countries on languages.country_code = countries.code
WHERE languages.percentage > 89
ORDER BY languages.percentage DESC;

5.
SELECT countries.name, countries.surface_area, countries.population FROM countries
WHERE countries.surface_area < 501 AND
countries.population > 100000;

6.
SELECT name, government_form, capital, life_expectancy
FROM countries
WHERE government_form='Constitutional Monarchy' AND 
countries.life_expectancy > 75 AND 
capital > 200

7.
select countries.name, cities.name, cities.district, cities.population from cities 
LEFT JOIN countries on cities.country_code = countries.code
where cities.district= 'Buenos Aires'
and countries.name ='Argentina';

8.
SELECT region, count(id) as no_countries  FROM countries
GROUP BY region
ORDER BY no_countries DESC;

 







